`Development`: Add documentation for plagiarism checks (#5381)
ls1intum/Artemis: docs/user/plagiarism-check.rst

.. _plagiarism-check:

Plagiarism checks
=================

.. contents:: Content of this document
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Plagiarism Check Overview
--------------------------

> Artemis allows tutors and exercise instructors to check assignments submissions from students for plagiarism.

Reviewer: We do not have tutors in Artemis. → Teaching assistant or editor?

Author: We have tutors. Look here: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10652693/178941858-f4d899b7-7043-4f39-8714-5448b32dadf6.png)

With this feature, different types of assignments can be checked in Artemis, including programming assignments, modeling assignments, and text assignments.
To perform the plagiarism check, the responsible tutors must initiate the checking process for a specific task. Below, we describe the plagiarism check workflows from the perspective of various Artemis users using a UML Activity Diagram.

.. _settings:

Settings
^^^^^^^^
|run-settings|

1. Similarity Threshold in % (minimum value 0, maximum value 100).

  Ignore comparisons whose similarity is below this threshold.
  A similarity of 0% means that there is no overlap between two submissions, a similarity of 50% means that about
  half of two submissions are identical.
  A similarity of 100% means that two submissions are completely identical.

2. Minimum Score in % (minimum value 0, maximum value 100).

  Consider only submissions with a score greater than or equal to this value.

3. Minimum Size.

>   a. Default value: Consider only submissions whose size is greater or equal to this value.

Reviewer: Which size is meant here? Lines? File size?

Author: The description is provided by the Artemis here. This is the default value, like a place holder.

  b. Modeling exercises: Consider only submissions that have at least as many modeling elements as the specified value.
  c. Text exercises: Consider only submissions that have at least as many words as the specified value.

Actions
^^^^^^^
|plagiarism-actions1|

.. note::
        Plagiarism detection can take a long time for large courses.
1. Detect plagiarism. The user can execute the plagiarism check using this action.

> 2. Rerun plagiarism detection. The user can rerun the plagiarism check by executing this action. It can be helpful to check the plagiarism with different settings mentioned in section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Rerun plagiarism detection. The user can rerun the plagiarism check by executing this action. It can be helpful to check for plagiarism using the different settings mentioned above.
```

Author: I forgot to put the reference to the section, now it's done. Thanks

> 3. Clean up. The user can clean up the latest plagiarism check results for the selected exercise. It helps to keep the database clean and safe storage capacity. Moreover, it should improve the overall system performance. To execute the clean-up action, the user must approve it by clicking ok on the dialog, as this action cleans all potentially approved or denied plagiarism cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Clean up. The user can clean up the latest plagiarism check results for the selected exercise. It helps to keep the database table slim and safe storage capacity. Moreover, it should improve the overall system performance. To execute the clean-up action, the user must approve it by clicking ok on the dialog, as this action deletes all potentially approved or denied plagiarism cases.
```

Author: Changed, thx

|clean-up-dialog|

4. Download. The user can download the plagiarism results in JSON or CSV format to open them in a selected editor for the further analysis.

Results
^^^^^^^

> After the plagiarism check was executed, the results can be expected in different views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the plagiarism check was executed, the results can be seen in different views.
```

Author: Inspected not expected :D

1. Overview of the similarity distribution. This statistical overview shows the similarity distribution based on the percentage as a histogram chart. The user can analyze the distribution quickly and adjust the plagiarism check settings as needed accordingly.
 |run-results|
2. Selected submission. When the user selects the submission from the submission list on the left side of the plagiarism run result view, new actions can be selected to initiate the plagiarism check workflow. We will provide further details to the workflow in the next section.
 |run-results-selected-submissions|

Plagiarism Check Workflow
------------------------

> Tutors

Reviewer: Same as above

Author: see my previous answer

2. Overview the current status of all confirmed plagiarism cases by inspecting the management overview. The overview provides the following information about each confirmed case:
 |confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management|

 a. In how many comparisons the confirmed case appears.
 b. Student was notified or not.
 c. Student has responded or not.
 d. Final verdict.

3. Export the confirmed cases as CSV file to analyze them in another editor.
4. Select one confirmed case and navigate to the case detail view.
 |selected-confirmed-case|

5. Notify the student about the potential plagiarism case and ask him or her for statement.
 |student-notification|

6. Make a final verdict by selecting one of 3 available options. The final verdict must be approved by clicking ok in the dialog.
 |verdict-dialog|

 a. Point deduction in % (minimum value 0%, maximum 100). Deduct points and confirm  the verdict in the dialog.
 b. Warning. The instructor can write a warning message to the student and confirm the verdict by in the dialog.
 c. Plagiarism. Next steps must be made manually by contacting responsible persons in the university to mark the student grade as "Unterschleif".

> 

Reviewer: I think the above actions could use a little more explanation (how do deducted points work in regard to bonus points, what happens with the warning message).

Author: Deduction: Its only relevant for the current exercise
Warning: only notification that big brother is watching you

Students
^^^^^^^^
After the student got a notification that the instructor asked for the statement, he or she has one week to respond. 
The process is visualized in the following diagram.

|student-workflow|

1. Open the notified plagiarism confirmed case via: Course Overview → Course → Exercise → Plagiarism Case.
 |student-plagiarism-case-navigation|

> 2. Reply the message of the instructor.

Reviewer: What should the student write here?
```suggestion
2. Reply to the message of the instructor.
```

|clean-up-dialog|

4. Download. The user can download the plagiarism results in JSON or CSV format to open them in a selected editor for the further analysis.

Results
^^^^^^^
After the plagiarism check was executed, the results can be inspected in different views.

1. Overview of the similarity distribution. This statistical overview shows the similarity distribution based on the percentage as a histogram chart. The user can analyze the distribution quickly and adjust the plagiarism check settings as needed accordingly.
 |run-results|
2. Selected submission. When the user selects the submission from the submission list on the left side of the plagiarism run result view, new actions can be selected to initiate the plagiarism check workflow. We will provide further details to the workflow in the next section.
 |run-results-selected-submissions|

Plagiarism Check Workflow
-------------------------

In this section, we explain the process of the plagiarism case detection process from different users' perspective.

Tutors
^^^^^^

> The tutors are responsible for checking the plagiarism attempts of students. They execute the plagiarism checks and mark the potential plagiarism candidates to notify the instructors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tutors and instructors can execute plagiarism checks. They carefully review the automatically identified cases and provide a first decision whether to accept or deny the found case.
```

Reviewer 2: Rationale: otherwise is sounds that tutors have to do this, but there might be courses in which instructors are responsible for the whole process

Author: done

> This process is visualized in the following diagram.

Reviewer 2: please avoid passive voice

Author: done

|tutor-workflow|

> 1. Open the Exercise via: Course Management → Course → Exercises → Your Exercise".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the Exercise via: Course Management → Course → Exercises → Your Exercise.
```

> 2. Access the plagiarism tool as seen in the picture

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Access the plagiarism tool as seen in the picture.
```

 |exercise-page|

3. Run the Plagiarism Check.

>  a. Tutor can adjust the similarity threshold and other settings as described in section :ref:`settings` if deemed necessary (most of the time not, depends on the exercise type).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 a. Tutors and instructors can adjust the similarity threshold and other settings as described in section :ref:`settings` if deemed necessary (most of the time not, depends on the formulation of the exercise and on the number of possible solution. A similarity of less than 50% typically means that students did not plagiarize).
```

Author: done

>  a. Tutors and instructors can adjust the similarity threshold and other settings as described in section :ref:`settings` if deemed necessary (most of the time not, depends on the formulation of the exercise and on the number of possible solution. A similarity of less than 50% typically means that students did not plagiarize).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 a. Tutors and instructors can adjust the similarity threshold and other settings as described in section :ref:`settings` if deemed necessary (most of the time not, depends on the formulation of the exercise and on the number of possible solutions. A similarity of less than 50% typically means that students did not plagiarize).
```

>  b. Checking big exercises can take a long time (sometimes multiple hours) and be very resource heavy → Start the checks at times when Artemis is less used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 b. Checking exercises with many students can take some time (sometimes multiple minutes) and might be resource intensive → We recommend to run plagiarism checks at times when only a few users actively use Artemis in such cases
```

Author: done

4. Start checking for plagiarism.

>  a. Assess if the presented matches are real plagiarism or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 a. Review if the presented matches are actual plagiarism cases or not.
```

Author: done

>  b. Depending on your assessment, either deny or confirm the match as plagiarism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 b. Depending on your decision, either deny or confirm the match as plagiarism.
```

>  b. Checking exercises with many students can take some time (sometimes multiple minutes) and might be resource intensive → We recommend to run plagiarism checks at times when only a few users actively use Artemis in such cases

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 b. Checking exercises with many students can take some time (sometimes multiple minutes) and might be resource intensive → We recommend to run plagiarism checks at times when only a few users actively use Artemis in such cases.
```

 c. Continue until the matches start to get "too different".

Instructors
^^^^^^^^^^^
The instructors can execute the same actions as tutors, additionally they are able to make a final decision on the particular confirmed plagiarism case.

> The process is visualized in the following diagram.

Reviewer 2: avoid passive voice

Author: done

|instructors-workflow|

1. Open the plagiarism cases via: Course Management → Course → Plagiarism Cases.
 |plagiarism-cases-navigation|

2. Overview the current status of all confirmed plagiarism cases by inspecting the management overview. The overview provides the following information about each confirmed case:
 |confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management|

 a. In how many comparisons the confirmed case appears.
 b. Student was notified or not.
 c. Student has responded or not.
 d. Final verdict.

3. Export the confirmed cases as CSV file to analyze them in another editor.
4. Select one confirmed case and navigate to the case detail view.
 |selected-confirmed-case|

> 5. Notify the student about the potential plagiarism case and ask him or her for statement.

Reviewer 5: ask him or her for a statement.

 |student-notification|

> 6. Make a final verdict by selecting one of 3 available options. The final verdict must be approved by clicking ok in the dialog.

Reviewer 5: But the dialog says "confirm" here, or am I missing something?

 |verdict-dialog|

 a. Point deduction in % (minimum value 0%, maximum 100). Deduct exercise points and confirm  the verdict in the dialog.

>  b. Warning. The instructor can write a warning message to the student and confirm the verdict by in the dialog.

Author: Thank you for remarks, I added them

>  a. Point deduction in % (minimum value 0%, maximum 100). Deduct exercise points and confirm  the verdict in the dialog.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 a. Point deduction in % (minimum value 0, maximum 100). Deduct exercise points and confirm  the verdict in the dialog.
```
